model/README.md, before:

# FIND model

This directory contains a Python implementation of the analytical FIND model presented in Section 2 of our NSDI 2021 paper.
As illustrated below, the model allows to compute the network discovery latency as a function of several key parameters (e.g., delay distribution, charging times of the nodes).
It is also possible to obtain more detailed insights by computing the probability for a node to become active in a slot and the probability for a link to be discovered in a slot.

## Installation

Install the python package together with the requirements for the examples using either

```
pip install neslab.find[examples]
```

or

```
pipenv install neslab.find[examples]
```

## Usage

Instantiate the model with a uniform distribution with scale parameter 10 and three nodes with charging times of 100, 125 and 200 slots that become active for the first time without an offset:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from neslab.find import Model

m = Model(10, "Uniform", [100, 125, 200], offset=0)
```

Compute for every node the probability of being active in a slot and plot the results:

```python
act = m.activity()
plt.plot(act[:2000])
plt.show()
```

Compute the cumulative distribution function (cdf) of the slot in which each of the three links between the three nodes is discovered and plot the results:

```python
cdfs = m.cdf()
plt.plot(cdfs)
plt.show()
```

Compute the fraction of discovered links and plot the result:

```python
dff = m.disco_frac()
plt.plot(dff)
plt.show()
```

Compute the discovery latency:

```python
lat = m.disco_latency()
print(f"Discovery latency: {lat} slots")
```

## Examples

We provide more involved example scripts in the [examples](./examples) directory:

To compare the probability of activity and the cdf of the corresponding discovery latency of two nodes with a charging time of 30 and 60 slots, using a uniform delay distribution, call

```
python examples/plot_example.py
```

To compare the discovery latency of two nodes when using different distributions across a range of their scale parameters, run

```
python examples/compare_dists.py
```

To plot the discovery latency of a clique of nodes over the node density, run

```
python examples/plot_density.py
```

To optimize the scale parameter of the geometric distribution to a range of charging times, run

```
python examples/optimize_scale.py
```


## Reproduce key results

We used the code provided in this directory to gain the insights presented in Section 2 of [our NSDI 2021 paper](https://nes-lab.org/pubs/2021-Geissdoerfer-Find.pdf).
We invite you to reproduce our results with the scripts provided in the [reproducibility](./reproducibility) directory.
Figures 3 and 4 can be reproduced with the script `examples/plot_example.py`.
The calculations for Figures 5 and 6, and for the lookup table for the online implementation take significant computing resources and require a high performance computing system with a large number of CPUs to complete in a reasonable amount of time.
We use [ray](https://ray.io/) to run the calculations on a distributed memory computing cluster.

### Setup your cluster

Install `ray` and `neslab.find` on all nodes in your cluster. The exact installation procedure depends on the specific cluster setup and your access rights. If in doubt, contact the cluster provider.

First, setup the `head` node responsible for managing the workload across the cluster by starting the head process with:

```
ray start --block --head --redis-password=yourpassword
```

Next, start a worker process on each other node in your cluster, providing the IP address of your head node as  `address`:

```
ray start --block --address=[IP of head node] --redis-password=yourpassword
```

### Comparing distributions

To reproduce the results shown in Figure 5 in our paper, you can compute the neighbor discovery performance of different distributions for a higher number of sampling points than with the example from `examples/compare_dists` according to the following instructions.

Login to any of the nodes in the cluster, clone the repository and run

```
python reproducibility/compute_dists.py -a [IP of head node] -p yourpassword -o results_dists.csv
```

Copy the `results_dists.csv` to your local machine and generate the plot with

```
python reproducibility/plot_dists.py -i results_dists.csv
```

### Fit the scale parameter for various scenarios

To reproduce the results shown in Figure 6 in our paper, and to generate the lookup table for the online implementation, first fit the optimized scale parameter of the geometric distribution for different combinations of charging time and n umber of nodes with

```
python reproducibility/fit_scale.py -a [IP of head node] -p yourpassword -o results_scale.csv
```

This will store the results in a csv file under `results_scale.csv`.

### Discovery latency versus network density

To reproduce Figure 6 in our paper, copy the `results_scale.csv` to your local machine and generate the plot with

```
python reproducibility/plot_density.py -i results_scale.csv
```

Commit message:

model: more scripts for reproducing paper results

model/README.md, after:

# FIND model

This directory contains a Python implementation of the analytical FIND model presented in Section 2 of our NSDI 2021 paper.
As illustrated below, the model allows to compute the network discovery latency as a function of several key parameters (e.g., delay distribution, charging times of the nodes).
It is also possible to obtain more detailed insights by computing the probability for a node to become active in a slot and the probability for a link to be discovered in a slot.

## Installation

Install the python package together with the requirements for the examples using either

```
pip install neslab.find[examples]
```

or

```
pipenv install neslab.find[examples]
```

## Usage

Instantiate the model with a uniform distribution with scale parameter 10 and three nodes with charging times of 100, 125 and 200 slots that become active for the first time without an offset:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from neslab.find import Model

m = Model(10, "Uniform", [100, 125, 200], offset=0)
```

Compute for every node the probability of being active in a slot and plot the results:

```python
act = m.activity()
plt.plot(act[:2000])
plt.show()
```

Compute the cumulative distribution function (cdf) of the slot in which each of the three links between the three nodes is discovered and plot the results:

```python
cdfs = m.cdf()
plt.plot(cdfs)
plt.show()
```

Compute the fraction of discovered links and plot the result:

```python
dff = m.disco_frac()
plt.plot(dff)
plt.show()
```

Compute the discovery latency:

```python
lat = m.disco_latency()
print(f"Discovery latency: {lat} slots")
```

## Examples

We provide more involved example scripts in the [examples](./examples) directory:

To compare the probability of activity and the cdf of the corresponding discovery latency of two nodes with a charging time of 30 and 60 slots, using a uniform delay distribution, call

```
python examples/plot_example.py
```

To compare the discovery latency of two nodes when using different distributions across a range of their scale parameters, run

```
python examples/compare_dists.py
```

To plot the discovery latency of a clique of nodes over the node density, run

```
python examples/plot_density.py
```

To optimize the scale parameter of the geometric distribution to a range of charging times, run

```
python examples/optimize_scale.py
```


## Reproduce key results

We used the code provided in this directory to gain the insights presented in Section 2 of [our NSDI 2021 paper](https://nes-lab.org/pubs/2021-Geissdoerfer-Find.pdf).
We invite you to reproduce our results with the scripts provided in the [reproducibility](./reproducibility) directory.
Figures 3 and 4 can be reproduced with the script `examples/plot_example.py`.
The calculations for Figures 5 and 6, and for the lookup table for the online implementation take significant computing resources and require a high performance computing system with a large number of CPUs to complete in a reasonable amount of time.
We use [ray](https://ray.io/) to run the calculations on a distributed memory computing cluster.

### Setup your cluster

Install `ray` and `neslab.find` on all nodes in your cluster. The exact installation procedure depends on the specific cluster setup and your access rights. If in doubt, contact the cluster provider.

First, setup the `head` node responsible for managing the workload across the cluster by starting the head process with:

```
ray start --block --head --redis-password=yourpassword
```

Next, start a worker process on each other node in your cluster, providing the IP address of your head node as  `address`:

```
ray start --block --address=[IP of head node] --redis-password=yourpassword
```

### Comparing distributions

To reproduce the results shown in Figure 5 in our paper, you can compute the neighbor discovery performance of different distributions for a higher number of sampling points than with the example from `examples/compare_dists` according to the following instructions.

Login to any of the nodes in the cluster, clone the repository and run

```
python reproducibility/compute_dists.py -a [IP of head node] -p yourpassword -o results_dists.csv
```

Copy the `results_dists.csv` to your local machine and generate the plot with

```
python reproducibility/plot_dists.py -i results_dists.csv
```

### Fit the scale parameter for various scenarios

As a basis for reproducing the results shown in Figure 6 in our paper, and to generate the lookup table for the online implementation, first fit the scale parameter of the geometric distribution for different combinations of charging time and number of nodes with

```
python reproducibility/fit_scale.py -a [IP of head node] -p yourpassword -o results_scale.csv
```

This will store the results in a csv file under `results_scale.csv`.

### Discovery latency versus network density

To reproduce Figure 6 in our paper, use the results from the previous step to compute ND performance for different strategies and increasing network densities by running (on the cluster)

```
python reproducibility/compute_density.py -a [IP of head node] -p yourpassword -i results_scale.csv -o results_density.csv
```

Copy the `results_density.csv` to your local machine and generate the plot with

```
python reproducibility/plot_density.py -i results_density.csv
```
